hey how's it going guys this is Dave 2d
when nvidia launched the gtx 1080
everyone was really impressed because
was such a big jump in performance from
the previous generation but i remember
thinking that when the mobile chips
launch there's no way there can be as
good as the desktop chips right they
never are I was wrong Nvidia just
launched the GTX 10 series for laptops
here are 5 things you need to know so
basically every major laptop
manufacturer is going in on this they're
all on board except for Apple a lot of
rumors are saying that the next
generation Mac books are going to use
the Polaris 11 chips from AMD still a
very capable graphics platform but if
you're an Adobe user and you want CUDA
cores for rendering it's not looking
good for mac books these are the specs
for the desktop GTX 10 series cards lots
of fancy numbers all good stuff and then
these are the specs for the laptop chips
also a lot of fancy numbers but I want
to draw your attention to a few things
first the clock speeds on the mobile
variants are reduced a bit same with the
boost clock speeds but they have the
same number of CUDA cores actually the
mobile 1070 has even more than the
desktop version because of the drop in
clock speed but in previous generations
the mobile chips easily had like a 25 to
30% reduction in CUDA cores not this
time they've also dropped the M moniker
at the end of the name so it's a gtx
1070 not a 1070 m now most of the other
specs including the memory speeds and
bandwidth are the same between the
desktop and laptop version gaming laptop
screens have always run at 60 Hertz so
if you had frame rates above 60 frames
per second you couldn't see it but
competitive gamers want higher refresh
rates on desktops they'll run 120 or 144
Hertz panels to help with reaction time
and if you've never gamed on a 120 or
144 hurt screen you should try it
something special so Nvidia has worked
with manufacturers to bring out 1080p
and even 1440p displays running at 120
Hertz on these new cards you're getting
some very buttery visuals I just got
these updated drivers from Nvidia
but with preliminary testing on the gtx
1070 i'm getting around 15% better frame
rates than the gtx 980
from the previous generation Nvidia
claims that the performance on these
mobile chips will be within 10% of the
desktop version so if you're interested
in the performance of a specific game
just look up the card that you're
interested in subtract 10% from the
desktop card and that should
theoretically be the performance of the
mobile card they're very fast and they
can be factory overclocked but with all
this increased performance comes
increased power consumption and that's
where things get a little interesting
the exact TDP of these chips haven't
been announced but NVIDIA has said that
they're supposed to be around these
numbers the TDP from the GTX 980 hour
and as an example the 2016 razor blade
is getting refreshed with Pascal chips
but razor is actually replacing the 970m
with a 1060 not a 1070 because thermally
the chassis that it's in can't dissipate
more heat than that and thermal
performance is one of the reasons why
apple doesn't use Nvidia chips in their
current laptops the top spec AMD chip
that they use right now has a TDP of
just 50 watts thermally on the g7 5 to
running the gtx 1070 it never got super
hot or anything and the keyboard area
stays cool even during benchmarks the
exhaust does get hot the fan is also
pretty audible unload it's not horribly
loud or anything but you will need
headphones to play games these new
Pascal chips have great performance but
they don't come cheap
see AMD is really the only competitor to
Nvidia and right now AMD doesn't have an
answer to Pascal let alone mobile Pascal
so Nvidia can charge whatever they want
on these chips and people will buy them
so right now at the very base model for
the GTX 1060 laptops you're looking at
1,300 at a minimum probably around
$1,500 for the average gaming laptop
that has won this laptop here the g7 5 2
is going to run you $2,500 so it's a
very expensive investment overall I'm
very very excited about these chips I
think they have an incredible
performance boost from the previous
generation but they won't come cheap I
will be doing reviews as they come in
subscribe to this channel if you're
interested give me some thumbs if you
like this video sub Z if you loved it
it's been nice see you guys next time
Oh